# 75 Sort Colors

<https://leetcode.com/problems/sort-colors/>, Medium

## Description

Given an array with n objects colored red, white or blue, sort them in-place so that objects of the same color are adjacent, with the colors in the order red, white and blue.

Here, we will use the integers 0, 1, and 2 to represent the color red, white, and blue respectively.

Note: You are not suppose to use the library's sort function for this problem.

Example:

```
Input: [2,0,2,1,1,0]
Output: [0,0,1,1,2,2]
```

Follow up:

- A rather straight forward solution is a two-pass algorithm using counting sort.
  First, iterate the array counting number of 0's, 1's, and 2's, then overwrite
  array with total number of 0's, then 1's and followed by 2's.
- Could you come up with a one-pass algorithm using only constant space?

## Idea

Using the specialty of 3 colors 0-1-2, the array can be divided into 4 zones:
zone 0 for color 0 located on the left side, zone 1 for color 1 in the middle,
zone "todo" for colors that are not sorted yet, and zone 2 for color 2 on the
right side.

    [ zone0, zone1, todo, zone2 ]

Note that zone 0, 1, 2 are all stable zones. In stable zones, all elements are
sorted. The mission of the sort is to reduce the `todo`, so that at the end,
zone 1 and 2 become neighbour. This can be done using a 3-pointers strategy:
one pointer `left` for the boundary between zone 0 and 1, one pointer `i` for
the boudary between zone 1 and todo, one pointer for boundary between zone 1 and
2. Then, keep incrementing pointer `i` and switching elements between `left` and
`i`, or between `i` and `right`. Therefore, the sort is done in one iteration,
thus O(n).

    [ zone0, zone1, todo, zone2 ]
           ^      ^     ^
          left    i    right

Corner case: when switching element between `i` and `right`, do not increment
`i` immediately, because we are not sure the value is stable. Handle it in the
next iteration.

## Test Cases

- `[2,0,2,1,1,0]`

## Solution

```java
class Solution {
    public void sortColors(int[] nums) {
        int left = 0;
        int right = nums.length - 1;
        int i = left;
        while (i <= right) {
            int v = nums[i];
            if (nums[i] == 2) {
                nums[i] = nums[right];
                nums[right] = 2;
                right--;
            } else if (nums[i] == 0) {
                nums[i] = nums[left];
                nums[left] = 0;
                left++;
                i++;
            } else {
                i++;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Runtime: 0 ms (faster than 100.00%), Memory: 37.2 MB (better than 67.58%)
