# 929 Unique Email Addresses

<https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-email-addresses/>, Easy

## Description

Every email consists of a local name and a domain name, separated by the @ sign.

For example, in alice@leetcode.com, alice is the local name, and leetcode.com is the domain name.

Besides lowercase letters, these emails may contain '.'s or '+'s.

If you add periods ('.') between some characters in the local name part of an email address, mail sent there will be forwarded to the same address without dots in the local name.  For example, "alice.z@leetcode.com" and "alicez@leetcode.com" forward to the same email address.  (Note that this rule does not apply for domain names.)

If you add a plus ('+') in the local name, everything after the first plus sign will be ignored. This allows certain emails to be filtered, for example m.y+name@email.com will be forwarded to my@email.com.  (Again, this rule does not apply for domain names.)

It is possible to use both of these rules at the same time.

Given a list of emails, we send one email to each address in the list.  How many different addresses actually receive mails? 

 

Example 1:

```
Input: ["test.email+alex@leetcode.com","test.e.mail+bob.cathy@leetcode.com","testemail+david@lee.tcode.com"]
Output: 2
Explanation: "testemail@leetcode.com" and "testemail@lee.tcode.com" actually receive mails
```

Note:

- `1 <= emails[i].length <= 100`
- `1 <= emails.length <= 100`
- Each `emails[i]` contains exactly one `'@'` character.
- All local and domain names are non-empty.
- Local names do not start with a '+' character.

## Idea

Idea is to normalize each email, and store the normalized results in a set.
Using a set avoids duplicates. The normalization must take into account the
follwing cases:

- Skip the dot sign ('.') before the at sign ('@')
- Skip the section between plus sign ('+') and at sign ('@') if plus sign exists

The normalization can be done using a string builder and iterates the string for
only once.

## Test Cases

- `["a@leetcode.com","b@leetcode.com","c@leetcode.com"]`
- `["test.email+alex@leetcode.com","test.e.mail+bob.cathy@leetcode.com","testemail+david@lee.tcode.com"]`

## Solution

```java
class Solution {
    public int numUniqueEmails(String[] emails) {
        Set<String> emailSet = new HashSet<>();
        for (String s : emails) {
            StringBuilder b = new StringBuilder(s.length());
            int i = 0;
            boolean ignored = false;
            while (s.charAt(i) != '@') {
                if (ignored || s.charAt(i) == '.') {
                    i++;
                } else if (s.charAt(i) == '+') {
                    ignored = true;
                    i++;
                } else {
                    b.append(s.charAt(i));
                    i++;
                }
            }
            while (i < s.length()) {
                b.append(s.charAt(i++));
            }
            emailSet.add(b.toString());
        }
        return emailSet.size();
    }
}
```

Runtime: 10 ms (faster than 94.90%), Memory: 39.2 MB (better than 86.34%)
